<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Smart Cities IG &ndash; 26 January 2026</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/assets/logos/w3c-2025/svg/w3c-white.svg" alt=W3C border=0 height=60 width=60></a></p>

<h1>&ndash; DRAFT &ndash;<br>
Web-based Digital Twins for Smart Cities IG</h1>
<h2>26 January 2026</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://github.com/w3c/smart-cities/blob/main/README.md#26-jan-2026"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2026/01/26-smart-cities-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Bert_Bos, Hiroki_Endo, Kaz_Ashimura, Kunihiko_Toumura, Michael_Koster, Tomoaki_Mizushima</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>Martin_Bauer</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>mjk, kaz</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#2e7f">Schedule</a></li>
<li><a href="#8a17">Minutes management</a></li>
<li><a href="#9f98">Minutes review</a></li>
<li><a href="#2363">Minutes review from the TPAC breakout session</a></li>
<li><a href="#f924">2026 Planning</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=2e7f>Schedule</h3>
<p id=b601 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> we need to confirm the schedule of monthly meetings</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=8a17>Minutes management</h3>
<p id=70f7 class=irc><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> proposed_resolution: taking minutes on IRC and publish the resulted HTML on GitHub</p>
<p id=b451 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> Propose we copy minutes from IRC to github<br>
<span id=42a8>… any objections?</span><br>
<span id=0e71>… no objections</span></p>
<p id=1449 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> taking minutes on IRC and publish the resulted HTML on GitHub</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=9f98>Minutes review</h3>
<p id=ac83 class=irc><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/09/08-smart-cities-minutes.html">8 Septemter 2025</a></p>
<p id=4ea9 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> (scrolls through the minutes document)<br>
<span id=69be>… Juanjo presented a description of FiWare</span><br>
<span id=1eec>… We would like to continue the collaboration with NGSI-LD</span><br>
<span id=3436>… any objections to approve the minutes from September 8th?</span><br>
<span id=9856>… no objections, approved</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=2363>Minutes review from the TPAC breakout session</h3>
<p id=2176 class=irc><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> <a href="https://w3c.github.io/smart-cities/minutes/2026/01/26-smart-cities-minutes.html">TPAC breakout on 12 November 2025</a></p>
<p id=2177 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> (scrolls through the minutes documents)<br>
<span id=0d91>… presentations from SBCO, IEC SCD3, Echonet, and OGC</span><br>
<span id=806b>… ISO/IEC JTC1 and JTC4 are the relevant groups</span></p>
<p id=1779 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> any objections to approving these minutes?<br>
<span id=9857>… no objections, approved</span></p>
<p id=478a class="phone s02"><cite>mjk:</cite> any follow on discussion from TPAC?</p>
<p id=3533 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> let's wrap up from the TPAC meeting and plan going forward</p>
<p id=e673 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> We would like to continue to invite important stakeholders, including IEC/ISO groups, Echonet, FiWare OGC...<br>
<span id=2f7b>… Would like to maintain a global scope and focus</span></p>
<p id=5cf4 class="phone s02"><cite>mjk:</cite> yeah, cities can work with each other, we need to understand that as well<br>
<span id=8a46>… sort of the Charter item</span></p>
<p id=a8ce class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> tx<br>
<span id=d971>… and what about you :)</span></p>
<p id=2ef6 class="phone s02"><cite>mjk:</cite> agree with you about that</p>
<p id=aa59 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> both internationalization and localization, global interoperability and local use cases</p>
<p id=f725 class="phone s02"><cite>mjk:</cite> use cases are contextful<br>
<span id=ad77>… how we do localize is a question</span></p>
<p id=8cd1 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> right</p>
<p id=46be class="phone s02"><cite>mjk:</cite> how do we localize to many diverse cultural factors</p>
<p id=ffff class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> right. I think we can talk with Richard about that as a starting point :)</p>
<p id=2be7 class="phone s02"><cite>mjk:</cite> and in terms of &quot;stakeholders&quot;<br>
<span id=67b3>… people are varied and open</span><br>
<span id=33fc>… smart cities is relatively new but we're covering important ones</span><br>
<span id=42e2>… connected with ISO, IEC, etc., is important</span><br>
<span id=3002>… ontologies are still waiting to be sorted out</span><br>
<span id=a322>… building ontology, etc. is being discussed</span><br>
<span id=37f0>… good example what W3C can do and succeed</span></p>
<p id=a6f9 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> right. good point</p>
<p id=73c9 class="phone s02"><cite>mjk:</cite> what we need to do is looking at people again after the vacation season</p>
<p id=fc45 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> we might want to sync with the BOT community group<br>
<span id=0652>… they are an example of W3C success</span></p>
<p id=8c22 class="phone s03"><cite>bert:</cite> There is a lot of interest around digital twins in the EU organization</p>
<p id=e0e2 class="phone s04"><cite>endo:</cite> The metadata aspect is an interesting part</p>
<p id=4f23 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> the NHK standardization work on metadata should be included</p>
<p id=d79d class="phone s05"><cite>toumura:</cite> The interoperability work is also interesting to solve pain points in industry, for example agriculture<br>
<span id=992b>… each area is a broad area</span></p>
<p id=f66d class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> we should clarify which industries to engage</p>
<p id=cca3 class="phone s05"><cite>toumura:</cite> mobility, energy...</p>
<p id=e01f class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> we may develop additional connections across industry</p>
<p id=dcdc class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> NTT might be another possibility</p>
<p id=58db class="phone s06"><cite>mizushima:</cite> we should collect and categorize input across a wide range of stakeholders; government, industry, and so on</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=f924>2026 Planning</h3>
<p id=ab1b class=irc><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/smart-cities/blob/main/resources.md">resources.md on GitHub</a></p>
<p id=ab1c class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> we've already identified sevaral important points and directions<br>
<span id=6a86>… stakeholders, industries, focus on interoperability, metadata</span><br>
<span id=8ffe>… any further input?</span><br>
<span id=f62b>… we already have markdown files on resources</span><br>
<span id=a3bf>… we could include stakeholders, companies, countries</span></p>
<p id=03f5 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> we could think about which items to handle first<br>
<span id=9f49>… we could generate another markdown for that purpose but could continue to add to this document</span><br>
<span id=5c5c>… next step is to think about which ones to invite, etc.</span></p>
<p id=261d class="phone s02"><cite>mjk:</cite> we could do the refinement in this document, and use the resources as an appendix</p>
<p id=5917 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> we could start by creating a structure and Table of Contents<br>
<span id=e5b6>… and think about timeline</span><br>
<span id=361d>… what are the concrete steps?</span></p>
<p id=3f90 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> mjk and kaz can work on the milestones and outline with a pull request(s)</p>
<p id=841f class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> we can create separate sections for specific viewpoints, starting with which segments to engage</p>
<p id=3a4e class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> toumura-san, can you start with a list?<br>
<span id=4969>… I can engage construction companies and accessibility</span><br>
<span id=affa>… attended a teleconference around accessibility and educational content</span><br>
<span id=c7a6>… need to redefine and refine the definition of accessibility for smart cities</span><br>
<span id=7a20>… we could think about customization of standards</span></p>
<p id=b0f8 class="phone s06"><cite>mizushima:</cite> the charter ends in August, we should think about more long term relationships</p>
<p id=9f6d class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> since we're an interest group, we should generate an informal document as a summary<br>
<span id=4798>… we can also extend by a few months to cover TPAC 2026 and review the next steps etc. at that time</span></p>
<p id=428e class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> the first year was establishing relationships with key stakeholders</p>
<p id=bb53 class="phone s06"><cite>mizushima:</cite> Is there a session planned for March 26th AC meeting?</p>
<p id=0cea class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> not likely</p>
<p id=3e42 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> please review resources.md and we chairs have an action item to update the document with TOC</p>
<p id=b296 class="phone s01"><cite>kaz:</cite> meeting adjourned</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#1449">taking minutes on IRC and publish the resulted HTML on GitHub</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 248 (Mon Oct 27 20:04:16 2025 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>

